In 1294 the [Venetian-Genoese War](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venetian%E2%80%93Genoese_Wars) began, was a conflict between the two republics. Genoa was dominating the seas of Venice, and the situation was dire for Venice. The venetians and the genoese war seemed inconclusive, while in Constantinople in 1296 the genoses residents destroyed the Venetian quarter, and killed many Venetian civilians. The Roman Emperor Andronikos II Palaiologos refused to let this slide, and siezed the genoese territories. The genoese civilians were expelled from Constantinople, and permanantly banished from the empire. The Venetians were able to gain the upper hand on Genoa, due to strife in their home country. The war was ended in 1299 with a compromise between the two republics. Venice was greatful for the Roman swift action on the genoese, and set up many trade agreements that benefitted the two nations. 


In 1302 The Romans launched a campaing against the independent Beyliks of Osman due to the numerous raids. At the [Battle of Bapheus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Bapheus) the Romans were victorious, and wiped out Osman's army, capturing and killing Osman I himself. Here the Romans continued their expansion into Ottoman territory, and the majority of the western anatolia, while the Sultanate of Rum managed to keep a hold of the interior of anatolia. By 1308 the Roman Empire had a strong hold on the western half of anatolia. 


In 1306 The Queen Regent of [The Despot of Epirus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Despotate_of_Epirus#Italian_invasions) revolted from the Neoplolitan rule, and favored to be under The Roman Empire. The revolt lasted in 1312, and thats when naples surrendered all their claims in Greece. During the [Roman civil war of 1321-1328](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byzantine_civil_war_of_1321%E2%80%9328) Emperor Andronikos II excluded Andronikos III from the succession, and without a true heir the empire fell to war. With Andronikos successful with his bulgarian allies, he ended up becoming co-emperor and eventually sole emperor. In 1337 Andronikos III revoked [The Despot of Epirus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Despotate_of_Epirus#Collapse_of_the_despotate) was completely surrendered to Andronikos III. With his firm control of Epirus, he was able to focuse on putting down the albanian unrest.


In 1341 the [Roman civil war of 1341-1347](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byzantine_civil_war_of_1341%E2%80%9347) broke out on Andronikos III's death. This resulted in a war between the rightful heir John V Palaiologos and John VI Kantakouzenos the chief minister of Andornikos III. John VI Kantakouzenos recieved a message from morea and athens that in return for their property, and rights securred they would seced to him. By this time the serbians were already down there. In fear of being abandoned John V Palaiologos made a deal with the now serbian emperor that in exchange for the northern part of Albania he would secure his alliance with John V Palaiologos. The Bulgarians also made significant land grabs in Northern Thrace. By 1347 peace was restored in the Empire, with John VI Kantakouzenos deposed and executed for treason. The Serbians were able to establish themselves in the north west balkans with Tsar Stefan Dusan in the new Serbian Empire, instead of siding with John VI Kantakouzenos he prefered John V Palaiologos. As he would think it would be a more predictable rule. By 1347 the war for the throne was over with John V Palailogos regency the victors. By 1355 The Empire was once stable again.

During [John V Palaiologos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_V_Palaiologos) reign he tried to consilidate the empire, by re-establishing the Theme System with firm control of Greece proper, and western anatolia. John was able to bring stability and order to the empire. He was concerned with the Turk threat to the east, after the Ilkhanate lost control of anatolia in 1335, leaving the Sultanate of Rum to manage itself, and sieze control of eastern anatolia. The Rum were of great threat, and the Mamluks waging constant wars against the remenants of the Ilkhanate would secure their power in the east. The empire survived its turbulent civil war, and was able to secure peace with its northern neighbors Serbia and Bulgaria. John peacefully abdicated to his eldest Son Andronikos IV, and helped Andronikos learn the ways of the empire. Until his death in 1381. [Andronikos IV Palaiologos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andronikos_IV_Palaiologos) was a short reign, but a significant one. He was forced to give the venetians specific trade rights, while barring all else from trade in constantinople. He siezed all else from genoa, officially removing their ability to trade in the east. on 1375 the Cilician Kingdom of Armenia swore vassalage to the Roman Empire in growing fears of the Mamluks. As the Mamluks were busy with the Ilkhanate conquests, they didnt bother to attack the new vassal of the Empire. Adrionokos lived until 1390 where his son [John VII Palaiologos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andronikos_IV_Palaiologos) began ruling.

[John VII Palaiologos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andronikos_IV_Palaiologos) reign started in 1390. Unlike his predecessors he was thirsty for war. Thought that the empire had been at peace too long. From 1390-1400 the empire raged war in the north at first allying the bulgarians ensuring the defeat of the serbians, and then turning on bulgaria, where both had no force to be vassals of the Empire. The Empire had secured Albania, and established Montenegro as an orthodox vassal state of the Empire with mostly autonomous rule. He and his son co-ruled, but his early death in 1403 left an open ended regency. 

[Manuel II Palaiologos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manuel_II_Palaiologos) came to power he was able to strong arm himself into the position posing as king regent for John VII son.


need to do pops for constanta and tulcea in romania (remove turk)

Redo SER pops, and BOS pops.

Genoa holds on to Sardinia and corsica

spanish did not inherit Milan, SP owned it, and italians remained out of Napoleonic wars.

Mamluks fight ilkhanate for iraq, with assistance from venice in exchange for cyprus.

Mamluks lose to Safavid, lose iraq in war.

